Freeplane is a open source application which allows for the creation of mind mapping, a type of diagram which various concepts are displayed as nodes, and associated concepts are attached as branch nodes.  The project started as an attempt to improve upon another open source mind mapping application FreeMind.

There is clear evidence of developer interest in the project.  The Freeplane github repository has commits on the master from as soon as a week ago.  In addition to this, the developer forums have posts from June 15, one in particular regarding the plans for developing the newest version of Freeplane.  The most recent stable version of Freeplane was released on June 12th, and there is a post about it from the main developer in the user forums.

There is also strong evidence of user interest in Freeplane.  It was voted as a community choice project of the month on Sourceforge for June.  The user forums have a high volume of posts asking questions regarding the use of the product.  In a reply to a post regarding Freeplane winning the project of the month, a user notes that there were almost 4000 downloads from sourceforge in the last week alone.

The documentation for the project is extensive.  On the project wiki, they have numerous tutorials for the use of the program, many of them as mindmaps made with Freeplane itself.  They also have numerous pages discussing how one can contribute to the project.  There are even tutorials on using github and setting up eclipse to aid with peoples contribution to the project.  Furthermore, the wiki contains pages that discuss testing practices, as well as general discussions on their development cycle.  There are also links to the user and developer forums.

Although I am not very familiar with Java, the code appeared to be well documented when viewed, with much of it containing comments describing what each piece was to be used for.  They have a stated focus of making the code extendable (per the architecture page on the wiki), and have attempted to remove any circular dependencies in the code.

The main wiki page has links to an issue tracker to help keep track of bugs.  They also include on the wiki guidelines to successfully reporting the bugs, such that others would have a successful time replicating said bugs.  As previously mentioned, the also have links to testing, and a set of guidelines for what constitutes a stable release.

The wiki solicits any who would be interested in participating in the development of Freeplane to contact the developers in the open discussion forum.  The wiki also contains a tutorial for the development of plugins that could be used with Freeplane.  Although there are few specifics given regarding possible contributions for a novice programer, they make it clear that such contributions are welcome, and that they are open to suggestions for improvements.

Overall, this appears to be an open source project with a passionate user base and dedicated developers.  They seem to be making an earnest effort to create easy to read code.  While it is difficult to identify specific ways to contribute, the developers have made it obvious they are welcoming even small contributions, and the use of plugins suggests that such contributions could be made.