Sympy is a Python library for symbolic mathematics that aims to be a computer algebra system (CAS).  It, unlike other CASs such as mathematica or maple, does not use its own language but instead is entirely in Python.  It also has the distinct advantage of being free to use.

There is quite a preponderance of evidence suggesting high developer interest on this.  The github repository shows commits from earlier today.  The Sympy developers are also a mentoring organization for the Google Summer of Code 2014.  The maintain a Google group and answer questions posed in the group, with at least a few post being made as current as this morning.  The last stable release was three months ago, giving further evidence of this as a current project.

Similarly, the same Google group which the developers answer questions in gives evidence of an active user base.  There are numerous questions posed by users on a daily basis.  However, I was unable to find recent download numbers, and while the user base does appear to be active in the Google group, it is hard to estimate its size.

The documentation for this project is quite extensive.  They have a detailed tutorial with examples on the use of Sympy.  They have tutorials with regards to how to contribute to the code and upload it to github.  They even have lists of general Python coding tips.  Their github repository contains an outline for development workflow.  They have a documentation page on their website for all the documentation for each version. (http://docs.sympy.org/latest/index.html).

Their code appears to be well commented.  Their development workflow page emphasizes the use of standard Python conventions.  In particular using four spaces for indentation levels and using all lowercase function names with words separated by underscores.  They have standardized tests for new code to complete before committing it for evaluation to be merged with the master.

The developers have a code.google list of issues, and request that any new bugs be reported to the issues page.  There they are evaluated and assigned an importance level.  As previously mentioned, the developers also request that all new code pass a series of standardized tests provided by said developers before it is committed.  Once it is finished, it is then reviewed before being merged with the master.

The developers appear to be very welcoming to improvement upon their software.  They are a mentoring project in the Google Summer of Code, and also request that any questions regarding assisting the project be sent to their mailing list.  They also recommend looking at the list of known issues as a good place to start.  The issues are explained, and ranked by their importance to the project.  Either the mailing list or the issue list would most likely provide a good place to start when looking for a way to contribute.

The detailed tutorials, the assurance by the developers that anyone can contribute, and the lists of known issues make me think that this could be a very viable project option.  The well documented code seems easy to read, and working on this project would also give me a chance to learn Python.